.TH FAAC 1 "2017-08-16" "1.29.5" "Free Advanced Audio Coder"

.SH NAME
faac \- open source MPEG-4 and MPEG-2 AAC encoder

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faac
.RI [ options ]
.RI [\-o\  outfile ]
.I infiles
.RI ...
.PP
.RI < infiles >
and/or
.RI < outfile >
can be "\-", which means stdin/stdout.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B FAAC
is an open source MPEG-4 and MPEG-2 AAC encoder, it is licensed under the LGPL license.
Note that the quality of 
.B FAAC
is not up to par with the currently best AAC encoders available.

.SH FEATURES
.TP
* Portable
.TP
* Fast
.TP
* LC, Main, LTP support
.TP
* DRM support through DreaM (optional)

.SH HELP OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -h
Short help on using FAAC
.TP
.BR -H
Description of all options for FAAC
.TP
.BR --license
License terms for FAAC.
.TP
.BR --help-qual
Quality-related options
.TP
.BR --help-io
Input/output options
.TP
.BR --help-mp4
MP4 specific options
Quality-related options
.TP
.BR --help-advanced
Advanced options, only for testing purposes

.SH QUALITY-RELATED OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -q\ <\fIquality\fP>
Set encoding quality. Set default variable bitrate (VBR) quality level in percent.
max. 5000, min. 10.
default: 100, averages at approx. 120 kbps VBR for a normal
stereo input file with 16 bit and 44.1 kHz sample rate
.TP
.BR -b\ <\fIbitrate\fP>
Set average bitrate (ABR) to approximately <bitrate> kbps.
max. ~500 (stereo)
.TP
.BR -c\ <\fIfreq\fP>
Set the bandwidth in Hz.
The actual frequency is adjusted to maximize upper spectral band usage.
.SH INPUT/OUTPUT OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -o\ <\fIfilename\fP>
Set output file to X (only for one input file)
only for one input file; you can use *.aac, *.mp4, *.m4a or
*.m4b as file extension, and the file format will be set
automatically to ADTS or MP4).
.TP
.BR -
Use stdin/stdout.
If you simply use a hyphen/minus sign instead
of a filename, FAAC can encode directly from stdin,
thus enabling piping from other applications and utilities. The
same works for stdout as well, so FAAC can pipe its output to
other apps such as a server.
.TP
.BR -v\ <\fIvebose\fP>
Verbosity level (-v0 is  quiet mode)
.TP
.BR -r
Use RAW AAC output file.
Generate raw AAC bitstream (i.e. without any headers).
Not advised!!!, RAW AAC files are practically useless!!!
.TP
.BR -P
Raw PCM input mode (default 44100Hz 16bit stereo).
Raw PCM input mode (default: off, i.e. expecting a WAV header;
necessary for input files or bitstreams without a header; using
only -P assumes the default values for -R, -B and -C in the
input file).
.TP
.BR -R\ <\fIsamplerate\fP>
Raw PCM input rate.
Raw PCM input sample rate in Hz (default: 44100 Hz, max. 96 kHz)
.TP
.BR -B\ <\fIsamplebits\fP>
Raw PCM input sample size (8, 16 (default), 24 or 32bits).
Raw PCM input sample size (default: 16, also possible 8, 24, 32
bit fixed or float input).
.TP
.BR -C\ <\fIchannels\fP>
Raw PCM input channels.
Raw PCM input channels (default: 2, max. 33 + 1 LFE).
.TP
.BR -X
Raw PCM swap input bytes
Raw PCM swap input bytes (default: bigendian).
.TP
.BR -I\ <\fIC[,LFE]\fP>
Input channel config, default is 3,4 (Center third, LF fourth)
Input multichannel configuration (default: 3,4 which means
Center is third and LFE is fourth like in 5.1 WAV, so you only
have to specify a different position of these two mono channels
in your multichannel input files if they haven't been reordered
already).
.TP
.BR --ignorelength
Ignore wav length from header (useful with files over 4 GB)
.TP
.BR --overwrite
Overwrite existing output file
.SH MP4 SPECIFIC OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -w
Wrap AAC data in MP4 container. (default for *.mp4, *.m4a and
*.m4b)
.TP
.BR --tag\ <\fItagname,tagvalue\fP>
Add named tag (iTunes '----')
.TP
.BR --artist\ <\fIname\fP>
Set artist name
.TP
.BR --composer\ <\fIname\fP>
Set composer name
.TP
.BR --title\ <\fIname\fP>
Set title/track name
.TP
.BR --genre\ <\fInumber\fP>
Set genre number
.TP
.BR --album\ <\fIname\fP>
Set album/performer
.TP
.BR --compilation
Mark as compilation
.TP
.BR --track\ <\fInumber/total\fP>
Set track number
.TP
.BR --disc\ <\fInumber/total\fP>
Set disc number
.TP
.BR --year\ <\fInumber\fP>
Set year
.TP
.BR --cover-art\ <\fIfilename\fP>
Read cover art from file X
Supported image formats are GIF, JPEG, and PNG.
.TP
.BR --comment\ <\fIstring\fP>
Set comment
.SH ADVANCED OPTIONS, ONLY FOR TESTING PURPOSES
.TP
.BR --tns
Enable coding of TNS, temporal noise shaping.
.TP
.BR --no-tns
Disable coding of TNS, temporal noise shaping.
.TP
.BR --no-midside
Don't use mid/side coding.
.TP
.BR --mpeg-vers\ \fIX\fP
Force AAC MPEG version, X can be 2 or 4
.TP
.BR --shortctl\ \fIX\fP
Enforce block type (0 = both (default); 1 = no short; 2 = no long).
.SH AUTHORS
.B FAAC
was written by M. Bakker <menno@audiocoding.com>.
.PP
.nh 2
Developed and maintained by Krzysztof Nikiel <knik@users.sourceforge.net>.
.PP
This manpage was written by Fabian Greffrath <fabian@debian\-unofficial.org> for the Debian Unofficial project (but may be used by others, of course).
.nh 1
